# PLOS ONE Early Career Travel Award in the Physical Sciences Application

Below is my application for the [Early Career Travel Award in the Physical Sciences](https://www.plos.org/onetravelaward) - a Travel Award Program for early career researchers who are presenting their work at 2018 conferences in the areas of physical, chemical, earth, materials and computer & information science. Award recipients will be selected based on the abstract of the research they are presenting at the conference and their commitment to the principles of open science (e.g. Open Data, Open Access, Open Source).

## Online Application Form

### Are You Eligible?

**Applicants must meet all of the following criteria:**

**Are you currently enrolled in a graduate program or have you received your last degree within the last five years?**  
Yes

**Have you received confirmation that your abstract has been accepted for presentation at a meeting/conference taking place between April 15, 2018 and December 31, 2018?** 
Yes

### Your Information

**First Name:** Rachael 

**Last Name:** Ainsworth

**Institution:** University of Manchester

**Country:** United Kingdom

**ORCID iD:** 0000-0003-2591-9462

**Year Graduate Degree was Awarded or is Expected:** 2017

**Which award round are you applying for?** 
Round 1: Physics & Astronomy


### Conference at which your work has been accepted for presentation 

**Please provide details for the conference where you will be presenting your work.**


**Title of Conference:**
Cosmic Rays: the salt of the star formation recipe

**Start date:**
May 2, 2018

**End date:**
May 4, 2018

**Location of Conference:**
Florence, Italy

**URL of Conference Website:**
https://www.arcetri.astro.it/cosmicrays/

**How will you be presenting your work?:**
Other: Contributed talk


**Abstract of the research that has been accepted for presentation at this conference. Maximum 600 words:**

I will present a status update on a pathfinding project to study the metre wavelength properties of low mass young stellar objects (YSOs). I will present observations of a sample of well known YSOs made with the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) at 50 and 90 cm - the first detections of these objects at such long wavelengths. The spectral energy distributions associated with jet emission arising close to each source show a continuation of the free-free spectra extrapolated from centimetre wavelengths to the metre-wave regime. In a few cases, emission with a synchrotron spectral index is detected and interpreted to arise from shocks in the outflows. This provides tentative evidence for the acceleration of particles to ~GeV energies at the shock fronts of these relatively low-power jets and suggests the possibility of low energy cosmic rays being generated by young Sun-like stars. Finally, I will present the first observations of a YSO with the Low Frequency Array (LOFAR), extending the study of young stars to 2 m and placing new constraints on important physical properties such as local electron density, ionized gas mass and emission measure.


**Share with us how you have demonstrated a strong commitment and success at practicing the principles of Open Science. Maximum 600 words:**

I am a Research Associate and Open Science Champion at the Jodrell Bank Centre for Astrophysics (JBCA). I make my data, code and other research outputs openly available through GitHub (https://github.com/rainsworth/) and Zenodo. 

I am currently working to install an open science agenda within the JBCA, which is the perfect springboard to advance Openness in astronomy as it reaches more people than most other astronomy institutes - it hosts conferences, workshops, training courses, summer schools, seminars/colloquia and conducts public outreach through the Jodcast (podcast), the Jodrell Bank Discovery Centre and the Bluedot festival. I am working to infuse open science into the already established forums at JBCA listed above and helping researchers to open up their research outputs such as data and code.

I collaborate with Research Data Services at the UoM Library to conduct Research Data Management training as part of the JBCA Autumn Computing Sessions (JACS), to train postgraduate students on best open data practices. UoM offers a variety of such training sessions, workshops and online resources for researchers and I am working to promote them within my department and to tailor them for astronomy.

I am passionate about promoting inclusivity and diversity in STEM, so I set up and organise the Manchester chapter of Her+Data – a networking community for women who work with or love data. Her+Data MCR (https://www.meetup.com/HER-Data-MCR/) brings together women in data fields in Greater Manchester to support one another, share experiences and talk about all aspects of data such as analytics, research, visualisation, journalism and art. We meet once a month and have 300+ members within our community.

I was selected as a Mozilla Open Leader in Round 4 to receive mentorship and training through the Mozilla Network on a project to advance open research: Resources for Open Science in Astronomy (ROSA, https://github.com/rainsworth/ROSA). My project ROSA aims to collaboratively compile and tailor open science best practices from around the web into a kit for astronomers to work openly from proposal to publication. I led and facilitated a session at Mozilla Festival 2018 titled "What resources do we need to break down barriers to open science?" (https://medium.com/@rainsworth/what-resources-do-we-need-to-break-down-barriers-to-open-science-mozfest-2017-session-recap-bc5562553c72). I was then invited to act as Mentor and Cohort Host as part of Round 5, and am hosting a local site at the JBCA for the Mozilla Global Sprint 2018 (https://ti.to/Mozilla/global-sprint-manchester18).

I presented a talk on Open Science in Astronomy (https://zenodo.org/record/1213043) at the European Week of Astronomy and Space Science (EWASS) 2018, where I discussed the different aspects of Open Science, the barriers we face to practicing openly, how to "open" up your research workflow using open and transparent data and software services in order to reap the benefits associated with open research practices, and highlighted current open projects in Astronomy.

I have undergone the FOSTER Open Science Training Bootcamp (https://www.fosteropenscience.eu/bootcamp) and am now certified to provide training on all aspects of Open Science. I am working to expand previous talks and workshops that I have delivered into a set of modules.
